

<b>OSG Charter</b>
http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/0000/000025/004/Charter.pdf

No mention of Council

<b>OSG Bylaws</b>
http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/0000/000070/009/ByLaws-1.0.3e-final.pdf

The governing bodies of the OSG Consortium are the OSG Council and the OSG Executive Board.

The OSG Council is the governing body of the Consortium. The OSG Council provides the scientific coordination and oversight of OSG activities. The OSG Council shall self select a chair to lead the council. The term for the Chair shall be two years. Individuals can serve no more than two full consecutive terms as chair.

The Scientific Advisory Group periodically reviews OSG activities and advises the OSG Council on matters related to OSG. The SAG may include leaders of scientific projects using the OSG and leaders in the area of distributed computing. The SAG members are appointed by the OSG Council Chair with input from the Council and the Executive Team.

Membership in the OSG Consortium does not imply membership on the OSG Council. The OSG council represents the organizations that comprise the OSG Consortium. The Council Membership shall not exceed 30 voting members. At least two voting slots will be held for council members at large to represent OSG Consortium members who do not have direct representation on the council. At large representatives will have a term of two years.

New organizations may apply for membership in the OSG council if supported by at least one existing member organization in the OSG council. The proposal for participation is submitted to the OSG Council Chair. The Chair will consult with the Exec Board and the EB will make a recommendation to the Council concerning the application The OSG council formally votes on the acceptance of new member organizations to the Council in a timely and appropriate manner.
The Council has the ability to appoint non-voting liaisons and partnership representatives to participate in the council.

It is the intention that OSG Council members actively participate in Council and Consortium activities on a regular basis. Activities include teleconference, video conferences, face to face meetings, email voting, contributing to the work of the council, etc. A regular basis defined as participation in at least 1&#8260;2 of the council events a 6 month period.
OSG Council members can send alternates to meetings and activities occasionally, but this is not considered actively participating. Alternates are allowed to represent their respective organizations and, if empowered, vote via proxy.
OSG Council member can provide a voting proxy to another council member or an alternate by contacting the OSG Council Chair and informing the chair who has the member’s proxy. Proxies are temporary and last for the length of a single activity (meeting, electronic vote, etc).
For the sake of votes, 1/5 of the membership is considered a quorum as long as the vote is announced in advanced.



(1) An amendment to the bylaws or charter can be proposed by any member of the Executive Board and OSG Council.


<b>Blueprint</b>
http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/0000/000018/012/OSG%20Blueprint%20v2.0.pdf

The consortium consists of the communities, executed by a core project, and is led by a council1.

Council: The council that governs the OSG Consortium, including the core project. The OSG Council includes the PI, executive team of the core project, user communities, software development projects, and external projects.

<b>Cooperative Agreement</b>
https://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org:440/cgi-bin/ShowDocument?docid=777

Open Science Grid Council –governs the Consortium ensuring effective benefit to the scientific mission of the stakeholders.
Open Science Grid Cooperative Agreement    2
•    Scientific Advisory Group -– a set of wise people representing a diverse scientific com- munity to provide advice to the Council and Executive Board.


Signed by the Council Co-chairs.

<b>Management Plan</b>
https://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org:440/cgi-bin/RetrieveFile?docid=314&version=5&filename=OSGmanagementPlan-final.pdf

Council – governs the Consortium ensuring effective benefit to the scientific mission of the stake- holders.

• Scientific Advisory Group – an invited, appointed group representing a diverse scientific community that provides advice to the Council and Executive Team.

The cognizant NSF Program Officer will be the Foundation’s point-of-contact with the OSG PI, the OSG Executive Director and the OSG Council.

The content of this program of work is ultimately owned by the OSG Council and managed by the Executive Director. 

<i>OSG Council</i>
The OSG Council is the governing body of the Consortium responsible for the program of work and en- suring effective benefit to the scientific mission of the stakeholders. The Consortium includes all contrib- utors to OSG and the Council is made of those Consortium members making significant contributions and commitments to the success of OSG. The Council endorses all strategic decisions, which are typically recommended by the Executive Team. The basic rules for operation of the OSG Council are described in the OSG By-Laws1 and summarized here.
The OSG council appoints a Chair following the procedure outlined in the OSG bylaws. The Council Chair is an ex-officio member of Executive Board. The Council Chairperson may form a team to assist in the preparation of Council business. The composition of such an advisory group is at the discretion of the Council Chairperson. Council membership includes Institution Representatives selected by the institu- tions and all members of the Executive Board ex-officio (as non-voting members).
The council elects the Executive Director following the procedures outlined in the OSG bylaws. The Ex- ecutive Director reports regularly to the OSG Council. Decisions are to be agreed by consensus whenever possible. If consensus cannot be reached, the relevant arguments will be documented and distributed to the OSG Council, and a meeting date set to decide the issue. A simple majority of those present who are eligible to vote will decide the issue through an open ballot. In cases where the OSG Council disagrees with a recommendation from the Executive Team the issue, together with a statement of concerns, will be returned to the Executive Team for further discussion. The issue will finally be decided through negotia- tion between the Executive Team and Council.
The Council elects the Executive Director for 2 years. The Executive Director appoints the Technical Di- rector, the Resources Manager, the Production Coordinator and the Applications Coordinator. The Coun- cil confirms all appointees. The Executive Director may appoint co-coordinators and/or deputies in any of these positions. The appointment of a new Executive Director and his/her team takes place 6 months prior to their taking office. Submissions for the post are submitted 2 months before the election. Between the submission and appointment, the Council arranges for presentations by the candidates for Executive Di- rector. During the 6 months following the appointment the new team works with the equivalent members of the current team. If the six month overlap includes any of the months May through July, when planning for the following fiscal year is done, the new ED and team will lead the planning activity. At the transi- tion, the (new) Executive Director and team will be up to speed on all responsibilities and will take over from the previous team at the transition date.


<i>Scientific Advisory Group</i>
A Scientific Advisory Group consisting of leading scientists provides guidance to the Council. The Scien- tific Advisory Group reviews the effectiveness of the benefits of OSG to the scientific mission of the stakeholders and provides feedback on the program of work to achieve this. Members of the Scientific Advisory Group are appointed by the Council Chair and confirmed by the Council.


The PI is a member of the Council and Executive Board. The current organizational structure of the OSG is shown in Figure 2.

All strategic Executive Team decisions are submitted to the OSG Council for ratification.

The Executive Director may propose a compromise statement to try to reach consensus. If none is reached, the Executive Director may take an operational decision on immediate issues but shall forward the issue to the OSG Council for final decision.

The production coordinator brings computing and storage resource needs to the Executive Team for discussion and forwarding as needed to the Council (whose members contribute the resources).


<i>Executive Board</i>
The Executive Board plans, decides, and executes the detailed program of work of the project. The Exec- utive Board consists of the Executive Team, the Resources Manager, the Area Leads and the Council Co- Chairs (Ex-officio).

Changes to this management plan are proposed by the Council or Executive Director in consultation with the Executive Team and approved by both bodies.

Council Meeting. Chair: Council Co-Chairs: Discussion of issues, plans and decisions affecting the Consortium. (Second Tuesday, monthly)


<b>OSG Security Plan, OSG AUP, Services Agreement, OSG Core Assets </b>

No mention of Council


-- Main.RuthPordes - 10 Jun 2011