Here is my biweekly report.

In the past few days US CMS has resumed production and the usage on OSG has reached a new high %u2013 I would not say a new plateau quite yet.

Date Total OSG CPU Wall Clock Days/Day 9/12/08 16K 9/13/08 19K 9/14/08 21K 9/15/08 17K 9/16/08 26K 9/17/08 19K

Plans are ramping up for the %u201CLHC Grid Fest%u201D. Rob Garder, John McGee and myself will be at CERN showing the Trash/Engagement matchmaking demo, giving information about the ATLAS and CMS %u201Cjust in time%u201D pilot job based scheduling applications, and participating as part of the CERN and Americas events during the day. We are pleased that Ed Siedel, the new head of the Office of Cyberinfrastructure at NSF, and Glen Crawford from DOE have said they will attend.

The new SBGrid Task Force led by the VO Group, Abhishek, is ramping up. While SBGrid currently consists of 2 small sites and one application to be adapted to run on several OSG sites, the plans are for significant expansion. The small local support group, without the deep collaboration expertise of some of our larger or OSG VOs, has been overwhelmed in sustaining production access to their resources and services. There is a long list of detailed tasks to achieve here over the next few weeks.

The Software Tools group lead by Alain and Mine is also ramping up in understanding the scope and needs of software owned by or contribute to OSG. They are picking up on the need for plans for every new activity%u2013 something we brought out as one of the goals during reorganization.

John McGee presented a well received talk on %u201CEmbedded Immersive Trash/Engagement Initiative: Toward High Performance Distributed Science %u201C at the GSA Expedition Workshop Strategic Leadership For Networking and Information Technology Education, and Miron talked about OSG to a high level workshop on distributed computing organized by Jack Dongarra.

Rob Gardner held a Site Coordination/Administrators meeting which was well received. We are planning regular dissemination of security information here from now on, and Rob is arranging a face to face to exchange experiences and needs.

Everyone agrees that the RSV reports and infrastructure is really giving useful information and we have reached a plateau in its deployment. A long slog %u2013 well done to all involved especially RobQ, Arvind, Brian and all the site administrators. Chander has posted the draft Year 3 WBS in the document repository and is starting to work on converting this and the staff plan into the FY09 Statements of Work over the next few weeks.

This week saw the MidWest Grid School with Alina, Charles, Ben, Marco and other teaching classes and helping the 35 or so students with hands-on. Alina is still looking for simple applications from students or researchers to use as demonstrators and get working over several OSG site during the class.

Last weeks Council minutes said %u201Cthis is the first we heard of the review in early 2009%u201D. Well %u2013 it is only recently that the Executive Team has heard of this also. We hope to learn more in the next few weeks.

And lastly, I was quoted in 2 articles for the LHC Beam Turnon, now linked to the OSG Home page, www.opensciencegrid.org

-- Main.JemiseLockhart - 23 Sep 2008