
---++ Executive Director Report February 6th, 2008

Subject: ED report Feb 4th

Date: 	Wed, 06 Feb 2008 07:32:08 -0600

From: 	Ruth <ruth@fnal.gov>

To: 	osg-council@opensciencegrid.org


Dear Council

We are pleased that Donatella Lucchesi has accepted to be the new CDF 
Council member. She is one of the leaders of CDF offline and computing 
software. I have added her to the mail list so she should be receiving 
this email.

We regret that Richard Mount has informed us that Bob Cowles is needed 
for full time responsibilities back at the SLAC facility and will  no 
longer be available for OSG responsibilities. Bob has made significant 
contributions to our grid security and policies activities over the past 
few years - since well before OSG started - and has been instrumental in 
working through all the details of joint policies with the rest of the 
Americas in the TAGPMA, the Europeans in the Joint Security Policy Group 
and EUPMA and worldwide standards and best practices in the IGTF and 
OGF. We will sorely miss his deep and wide knowledge and expertise, his 
attention to detail and the meaning and interpretation of words, his  
ability to bring diverse parties and cultures to consensus, and his 
proactive response to emails and discussion threads.  We certainly hope 
Bob will remain on the OSG mail lists and be able to continue some 
attention to our work, even as he steps down from the incident response 
and core security activities.

We wish Bob, Richard and SLAC well and good luck in these challenging 
times and in the new and diverse directions in which SLAC is moving!

And of course we need to replace Bob's effort. If you know of someone 
who could step into his shoes - not an easy task - please do not 
hesitate to contact me or the Resources Managers. In parallel the 
Executive Board is discussing how to proceed in the short and longer term.

And finally, we are looking for good suggestions for panelists and 
registrants for the All Hands meeting in March. Even if you are only 
coming to the Council meeting on Thursday please do register just for 
that day. We are working on enabling (good) remote participation.
http://indico.fnal.gov/confRegistrantsDisplay.py/list?confId=1037

Hope to see you there!

Ruth


-- Main.KentBlackburn - 01 Apr 2008