Dear OSG Council

I apologise for the long silence in the Executive Directors reports.

The OSG project has been continuing to address the short-term needs of the stakeholders and work towards completion of the year 3 program of work. Dan Fraser has started as the OSG Production Coordinator at the beginning of April.

As discussed at the face-to-face we are increasing our specific attention for the near term to the needs of the US LHC Tier-3s as they ramp up. We have asked Dan to take on the duties of US LHC Tier-3 coordinator and he is working with the software and computing managements on the prioritized needs for support. I attended the recent Internet2 member meeting and worked with Chip Brock of US ATLAS and Ian Fisk of US CMS to include OSG information in the communications there about the US LHC Tier-3 program.

The presentations at the area coordinators bi-weekly meetings well record the progress of each of the areas of the project program of work. If you have questions about any specifics please do ask me during the council meeting, email, or we can talk directly on the phone. https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Management/AreaCoordinator
The number of registered resources is now at 98 Compute Elements and 36 Storage Elements on the production infrastructure.

We continue with our roster of regular brief phone meetings with our partners, major stakeholders and selected external software providers. These are very valuable in focusing attention on short and medium term issues that we may miss in our day-to-day activities. Frank and Miron attended the recent DOE ASCR / ESnet Requirements Workshop and found much interest in the reports  of the OSG support for our stakeholders. Miron and Ruth attended the NSF Software Sustainability Workshop. I have not seen the report from this yet. Sebastien and John have completed the OSG SuraGrid Statement of Interest (SSI) and technical work is proceeding. The Executive Board has agreed to this SSI which is now available in the document repository http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/0008/000845/001/SuraGrid%20OSG%20SSI.pdf 

We will continue discussion of the longer-term future of OSG at the Council meeting this week. The Executive Team has continued with our contacts at both DOE and NSF at an informal level to try to better understand the parameters. We have submitted a list of potential joint activities with TeraGrid to the NSF, from which we are awaiting feedback before distributing further. I am happy to talk to this verbally.
With regards,

Ruth



-- Main.KentBlackburn - 11 May 2009