---+!! Sustaining Charter of the Open Science Grid Consortium

%TOC%

---+++ Introduction and Vision

The increasing scale and complexity of 21st century science has led to larger and more global collaborations involving massive data sets. Analyzing this data requires efficient utilization of widely distributed computational resources and effective global communication.  Science communities and other organizations join the Open Science Grid Consortium with the expectation that they can benefit from the infrastructure and services provided and also contribute resources and effort as part of a coordinated project.

The vision of the Open Science Grid Consortium (OSG) is one of a _persistent national infrastructure_ for US science that includes local campuses and resources distributed over the wide-area internet: the Open Science Grid Production infrastructure.

---+++ Consortium and Infrastructure

The Open Science Grid Consortium includes scientific collaborations, scientific computing centers and distributed high throughput computing research and deployment projects, involving both computational and application scientists working together to provide and support the set of facilities, services and infrastructure needed. A structure of management and coordination bodies oversees and coordinates the work of the Consortium.

The Open Science Grid Consortium provides a set of production, software and consulting services through which the distributed resources of the different members are operated coherently and compatibly.  The Consortium includes a dedicated staff providing core services to the Consortium members, contributions from related Satellite efforts, as  well as other resources, supported  by direct funding and  member contributions.

The Open Science Grid Consortium is open to all sciences that have a need for distributed high throughput computing and data management, and can bring resources and contributions to be shared.

---+++ Connections and Opportunities

The Open Science Grid Production infrastructure will continue to be operated and extended in the US. This infrastructure is federated with other cyberinfrastructures, locally on and across the nation’s campuses, nationally with the NSF and DOE shared facility programs (including XD XSEDE), and internationally through participation in the global common infrastructure for science. To meet the data analysis needs of the scientific communities, the infrastructure supports managed access to a large number of diverse computing and storage resources (up to tens of thousands of CPUs and 100s of petabytes).

The Open Science Grid Consortium provides opportunities for educators and students to participate in providing and exploiting this infrastructure and for developing and training a scientific and technical workforce.

The Open Science Grid Consortium ensures that the U.S. plays a leading role in defining and operating the global grid infrastructure needed for large-scale collaborative and international scientific research. 

Draft V0.2, October 27, 2004

Draft V0.3 December 20th, 2004, Fix spelling. Remove last 2 sentences as per John Huths Oct 26th email

Draft V0.4 November 12th 2011, Transition to a Sustaining Charter for future work.

Draft V0.5 December 7th 2011, Comments from Rick Snider, Jerome Lauret addressed.




-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 30 Jan 2013